---
icon: bucket
---

# S3

## Versioning

* **Versioning** ensures that each object has a unique version ID, which is crucial for replication to correctly manage multiple versions of objects.
* If versioning is not enabled at the time of bucket creation, objects will have a `null` version ID.
* Bucket versioning settings cannot be changed back to unversioned once enabled; they can only be suspended or re-enabled.
* **Permanent Deletion**:
  * _permanently delete ->_ will remove '**delete marker'** and restore object
  * Deleting all versions, including any delete markers, permanently removes the object from the bucket.
* No changing of bucket versioning, so B1->B2 and B2->B3 will work not B1-> B3
* By default, **delete markers** are not replicated in **cross-region replication (CRR)** or **same-region replication (SRR)**. This means deleting an object in the source bucket will not delete it in the destination bucket unless explicitly configured.
  * To replicate deletions, enable the **replication of delete markers** in the replication rules. This is for s3 delete operations, <mark style="color:green;">Delete markers created by lifecycle rules will not be replicated.</mark>

## **Replication:**

* SRR or CRR, only works if **versioning is enabled .**
  *   **SRR:**

      * **Replication Cost:** No additional charge for replicating data within the same AWS region.
      * **Storage Cost:** Standard storage costs for the objects in both the source and target buckets&#x20;
      * **Request Charges:** You pay for the PUT requests in the destination bucket when objects are replicated.

      &#x20;&#x20;
  * **CRR:**
    * **Replication Cost:** You incur additional data transfer costs for replicating data across AWS regions.
    * **Storage Cost:** You pay for storage in both the source and destination buckets (in different regions).
    * **Request Charges:** Similar to SRR, you pay for the PUT requests in the destination bucket.
    * **Data Transfer Costs:** Since data is replicated across regions, there are additional **data transfer** costs associated with CRR.
* Batch Replication - ensures that existing and objects that **failed to replicate** (e.g., due to a misconfiguration, network issue, etc.) are replicated.
  * You can initiate batch replication for specific objects or a group of objects in a bucket.
  * It is useful for ensuring consistency
  * after you enable replication, only new object are replicated\*

## Encryption

#### Client-Side Encryption

* Use any client-side encryption library, as data is encrypted by the client before uploading to S3 and can only be decrypted by the client

**Use Case**: Suitable for highly confidential or sensitive data (e.g., proprietary or restricted data) where even AWS should not be able to decrypt the data.

#### SSE-C

* Server side encryption using keys managed completely by the customer outside AWS, these keys are discarded and never stored on aws
* Must use HTTPS to pass keys with Http Headers for every request
* You upload file + Key in Header
* Available from CLI only

**Use Case**: Ideal when regulatory requirements or internal policies mandate that the encryption key be managed entirely outside AWS.

#### SSE-S3&#x20;

* Server-side encryption with amz managed keys, **default**
* **AES-256**
* Header set to `"x-amz-server-side-encryption": "AES256"`

**Use Case**: Best for standard data that requires server-side encryption but doesn't need specific control over encryption keys.

#### SSE-KMS

* Encryption with KMS key you create yourself, KMS has its own APIs, so you're making calls that have quota per second based on region
* If you have high throughput s3 buckets with KMS api quota you can run into **throttling** -> <mark style="color:blue;">solution enable</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">**bucket keys**</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">for a bucket using SSE-KMS.</mark>
* **Without Bucket Keys**:
  * Every object encrypted with SSE-KMS requires a KMS API call to generate a unique data encryption key per object.
  * Each time an object is accessed, decrypted, or modified, another KMS request is generated.
  * This can add up quickly with large numbers of objects, increasing both latency and costs.
*   **With Bucket Keys**:

    * AWS generates a **single KMS data encryption key** **per bucket**, rather <mark style="color:blue;">than one per object.</mark>
    * All objects in the bucket share this bucket-level key, so accessing each object doesn’t require an individual KMS request.
    * AWS still protects each object with unique, per-object encryption, but the underlying KMS key usage is reduced.
    * **Bucket Keys** drastically reduced because a single key is used for all objects in the bucket.
    * Fewer KMS calls also mean less latency, making it more efficient for applications that require high-volume read/write access to objects
    * Especially beneficial for high-volume applications, such as: **Data lakes, Log archives** (frequent log writes and reads), and  **Backup storage**.



<details>

<summary>KMS + bucket keys</summary>

1. **Enable SSE-KMS with Bucket Key**:
   * Select **AWS Key Management Service (SSE-KMS)** as the encryption method.
   * Choose an existing **KMS Key** or create a new one.
   * **Enable Bucket Key** by checking the box that says **Use Bucket Key for SSE-KMS**.
2. Add `x-amz-server-side-encryption: aws kms` Header When Uploading Objects, (you don't need to specify the bucket key explicitly in the headers).
3. AWS will automatically use the bucket-level key to reduce the KMS requests and lower the cost.

</details>



* Fine grained control + audit key using CloudTrail, everytime key is used it will be logged. Allows setting specific IAM policies and tracking key usage through AWS CloudTrail.
* Object encrypted server side when object is uploaded with header `"x-amz-server-side-encryption": "aws:kms"`

**Use Case**: Ideal for sensitive data where you need control over access to the encryption keys, such as financial or healthcare data.

#### DSSE -KMS

* Dual encryption, combining  AWS-managed KMS keys with a customer-provided key or additional encryption layer.
* AWS first encrypts the object with an "envelope key,"  :envelope: a unique key created for that specific object. Then, KMS encrypts this envelope key using a separate, higher-level KMS key :key:. This provides dual-layer encryption: the object is encrypted, and then that encryption key is also encrypted.
* DSSE-KMS, AWS will attach encryption metadata headers to your S3 object

```xml
x-amz-server-side-encryption: aws:kms
x-amz-server-side-encryption-aws-kms-key-id: arn:aws:kms:us-east-1:123456789012:key/abcd1234-5678-90ef-ghij-456klmnop789
x-amz-server-side-encryption-bucket-key-enabled: true

```



#### SST/TLS - encryption in transit

### Bucket policy to enforce encryption in transit for **all actions** (including both upload and download, GET PUT)

**Condition**: Enforces the condition <mark style="color:blue;">`aws:SecureTransport`</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">being</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">`false`</mark><mark style="color:blue;">,</mark> which means the request is made without HTTPS. If the condition is true, the request is denied.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "DenyNonHttpsRequests",
            "Effect": "Deny",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:*",
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name",
                "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*"
            ],
            "Condition": {
                "Bool": {
                    "aws:SecureTransport": "false"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}

```

### Bucket Policy to enforce encryption by refusing api call to PUT object without encryption header&#x20;



```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "EnforceEncryption",
      "Effect": "Deny",
      "Action": "s3:PutObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringNotEquals": {
          "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": [
            "aws:kms"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}

```

This would **deny the request if the encryption header is set to any value other than** `aws:kms`

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "EnforceEncryption",
      "Effect": "Deny",
      "Action": "s3:PutObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEqualsIfExists": {
          "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": [
            "aws:kms",
            "AES256"
          ]
        },
        "Null": {
          "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": "true"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}

```

The `"Null": { "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": "true" }` condition checks if the `x-amz-server-side-encryption` header is **missing** from the `PUT` request. If the header is missing (null), the request is **denied**.

***

<mark style="color:blue;">**Bucket policies will always get evaluated before defult encryption settings**</mark>

* **Bucket Policy Denial**: If the policy denies access, no further steps (including default encryption) are performed.
* **Default Encryption**: Only applies if the bucket policy does **not** block the request.



## CORS

> web browser  security feature that allows or restricts web browsers from making requests to a different domain (or origin) than the one the web page was loaded from.

To be considered the **same origin** in web security (CORS), the following 3  must be **exactly the same** between the URLs:

1. The **protocol** is the same, both must use `https` or both must use `http`
2. The **host** (domain) is the same,`https://example.com` and `https://sub.example.com` are **different origins** because the host is different.
3. The **port** is the same (if specified). If no port is specified in the URL, the default ports for `http` (80) or `https` (443) are assumed.

**CORS-Enabled Resource Bucket**: Secondary S3 bucket is configured with Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)

```
[
    {
        "AllowedHeaders": [
            "*"
        ],
        "AllowedMethods": [
            "GET"
        ],
        "AllowedOrigins": [
            "http://jt-s3-static-website.s3-website.eu-north-1.amazonaws.com"
        ],
        "ExposeHeaders": [
            "ETag"
        ],
        "MaxAgeSeconds": 3000
    }
]
```















